feat(Forms): deprecate Ajv `validationRule` in FormError and deprecate `errorMessages` keys like `pattern` in favor of Eufemia translation keys like `Field.errorPattern` (#4162)
dnbexperience/eufemia: packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/uilib/extensions/forms/Form/error-messages/info.mdx

showTabs: true
---

> **Table of Contents**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Table of Contents
```

As of right now, it looks a bit strange.
https://eufemia-git-feat-form-error-rewrite-eufemia.vercel.app/uilib/extensions/forms/Form/error-messages/info/#formerror-object

<img width="753" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/dfb1c199-a855-4bcf-898a-c839fe8c219b">

  - [FormError object](#formerror-object)
    - [Overwrite existing keys](#overwrite-existing-keys)
    - [Custom keys in a field](#custom-keys-in-a-field)
    - [Custom keys in Form.Handler](#custom-keys-in-formhandler)
    - [Localization of error messages](#localization-of-error-messages)
    - [Use translations to localize error messages](#use-translations-to-localize-error-messages)
    - [Error message in a field `schema`](#error-message-in-a-field-schema)
    - [Error message in a global `schema`](#error-message-in-a-global-schema)
- [Levels of `errorMessages`](#levels-of-errormessages)

## Description

Eufemia Forms comes with built-in error messages. But you can also customize and override these messages by using the `errorMessages` property both on [fields](/uilib/extensions/forms/all-fields/) (field level) and on the [Form.Handler](/uilib/extensions/forms/Form/Handler/) (global level).

You may use the `errorMessages` property for two purposes:

- Provide your onw error messages.
- Overwrite the default error messages.

Both can be done on a global level or on a field level.

> How ever, for when overwriting the default error messages on a global level, you can also use [internationalization (i18n)](#localization-of-error-messages).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, for when overwriting the default error messages on a global level, you can also use [internationalization (i18n)](#localization-of-error-messages).
```
